<p></p><h1>How to use this?</h1><p></p>
<p>Content is inline editable</p>
<p>Feel free to write HTML/Markdown here and use <button>markdn</button> on the left</p><p><br></p>
<p>Basic features that should be implemented:</p>
<ul>
<li>use git log as input to <del>sharejs (needs a running server)</del> for operational transform</li><li>merging html edits, the problem is best summarized <a href="http://useless-factor.blogspot.com/2008/01/matching-diffing-and-merging-xml.html">here</a><br></li><li>&nbsp; maybe try to use simple text diff</li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; use this test case &lt;p&gt;this is &lt;b&gt;a good&lt;/b&gt; story&lt;p&gt; <br></li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; merge with&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;p&gt;this is a &lt;i&gt;good story&lt;/i&gt;&lt;p&gt; <br></li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; should return&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;p&gt;this is &lt;b&gt;a &lt;i&gt;good &lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;i&gt;story&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; not&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;p&gt;this is &lt;b&gt;a &lt;i&gt;good&lt;/b&gt; story&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe not a big problem since browser will fix bad html</li><li>&nbsp;<ins> &nbsp; &nbsp; Need to use innerhtml before commit</ins></li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; tried <a href="https://github.com/tnwinc/htmldiff.js">htmldiff.js</a> which is more like a html code diff and html syntax is not correct</li><li>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/cosmiclattes/htmlDiff">google-diff-match-patch</a> has same problem but better heristics<ins> - DONE<br></ins></li>
<li>all deletions should be treated as strikeover, no information is ever removed<ins> - DONE<ins><del><br></del></ins><ins></ins></ins></li><li>atomic commits, just keep merging until commit went thur<br></li><li>save local version with localStorage, to prevent lost of unsaved content</li>
<li>Mouse highlighting to be implemented later with github.com/pen , grande.js, zenpen</li><li>edit Oauth token should be in url query not in code, also content.md</li><li>&nbsp; github says CDN doesn't work with url query... so www.wordsharer.com/index.html?file=why.md would not be cached , their CDN ~I think~ scans all html pages in your repo and cache these, url needs to match the html page, not a big deal I guess, when editing use url query, when publish change to why.html</li>
</ul>
<p>Some roadblocks I haven't quite figured out yet</p>
<ul>
<li>there is no separate access control to different files/articles in the repo, or even to other public repo, <del>seems this is not a git concept?  I suppose people are suppose to fork a private repo and then make pull request to your private repo, but doesn't really work well in wordsharer way, it means contributor has to login to github... too much friction?</del></li><li>&nbsp; github says individual repo access control is on their roadmap with the expanding OAuth scope, perhaps in the short term use a password to encrypt the token to at least minimize problem</li><li>SSH connection, github currently does not support this, so edit the document at some cafe is a problem<br></li>
</ul>
<h1>Why I am looking for this?</h1>
<p>The problem I have with blogging or publishing my ideas are three folds, and they kinda feed into each other:</p><p><br></p>
<p><strong>Speed</strong> - not the actual writing down of the idea, but the reformating, rewording, etc</p>
<p><strong>Conciseness</strong> - quality of the writing, does the writing convey the idea properly, easy to understand, keep people reading… etc</p>
<p><strong>Propagation</strong> - how to get the idea to the right audience, going thur the network</p><p><br></p>
<p>In another word, going from raw idea to something I can share/blog as fast as possible and not embrass myself, haha. <br></p><p><br></p><p>Kinda like how an idea starts with one speaking about it, and by conversing with small number of people first, the idea gets expanded/ refined/ rejected and eventually the idea can be presented.</p><p><br></p>
<p>Similarily we can start with some raw text, then the refinement starts by corresponding with small number of friends first.
I believe this is already the workflow of most serious bloggers, but how to bring the process to casual people like myself, because everyone’s got an idea that just waiting to be shared to a wider audience if they feel comfortable about sharing it. Everyone should have the right to define one’s own idea on the web and build an idea profile.</p>
<p>So what’s the idea?
Everyone can write emails, and it’s already quiet good for the first part of the refinement process, namely sharing the first raw draft with a few friends; but then there seems to be a big gap to transform that into something that can attract more attention something like a blog.</p><p><br></p>
<p><del>and also help it propagates.</del>
What if propagating the writing gives some reward to the distributor? I wouldn’t mind if people who spread my ideas get their names added (like a co-author), matter of fact, a “sharer” has as much contribution as the writer, because it helps the idea propagates to the right target.&nbsp; Maybe some sort of monetary award or something similar to reddit gold, if the writing shared is actually read.&nbsp; Or maybe if someone makes a contribution, everyone on the "sharer" path gets notified?<br></p>
